let's start with the most tactile part
of this problem in the common cultural
practice of male circumcision so cutting
off the foreskin from the penis
especially commonly done in the United
States America especially common
commonly done in the Islamic faith and
in Judaism I've seen ballpark estimates
in articles that maybe 50 percent of the
nerve endings in your penis are lost but
those numbers whether the particular
author says 50 percent of 30 percent
they're a little bit misleading because
as Eric Eric Lauper discusses at some
length in his new YouTube video it's
it's the 50% of nerve endings that
really count he was who count as 50% or
30% if it's 30% it's 30% that are
located at the end of the penis that
really matters in terms of your
perception or your experience of
sexuality now of course it's also in a
structural sense destroying the the
shape and function of the penis so
there's there's more to be said about
what the impacts are of of male
circumcision just on how men have sex
but in terms of how we perceive the
world how we see and feel Eric Klopfer
in his new video titled sex and
circumcision American love story he uses
an interesting and provocative but I
think slightly flawed philosophical
allegory he explains to you that when he
was a young man
he had very poor vision but he was not
yet a layer that he had poor vision
because he had never he'd never tried
using eyeglasses he'd never been able to
compare the the limited vision he had to
what the world looked like when he when
he put it on my glasses and he assumed
that everyone else perceived the world
in the same slightly blurry way that he
did growing up with impaired vision and
then he had something this was you know
he suddenly realized you know how
limited his experience of reality was
when he finally did get a pair of
eyeglasses that the correct
his vision now his experience at
circumcision
obviously it's a somewhat imperfect
parallel because there is no pair of
eyeglasses there is no way he can
restore to himself the contrast and
feeling the experience the perception
the world of having those nerve endings
working again in the the end of his
penis or having the structure and
function of the foreskin the glans etc
etc however I'd invite you to make this
comparison instead and the reason why
I'm challenging them on this is that
people who take his position and in very
broad brushstrokes of course I share his
position for example I do regard
circumcision as a barbarity in modern
times that should be abolished etc
broadly speaking on I'm in agreement
with my civilize them however if you
present the claim that this is a
devastating procedure that removes 50%
of the nerve endings in the penis that
totally destroys natural sexual function
etc etc you have to deal with the
confounding evidence the contrasting
point of view of men who have undergone
circumcision as teenagers or as adults
for various reasons but something once
in a while people do it for health
reasons once a while for religious
reasons they for example people who
convert to Islam and then as an adult
and then undergo circumcision the point
we have plenty of witnesses around who
will from their subjective perspective
describe the changes relatively subtle
or relatively minor or will claim
optimistically or not I mean they may
not be lying to themselves on others who
will claim there's really no no
difference at all so how do we reconcile
these facts some of which are obviously
objective and quantifiable scientific
facts like about numbers of nerves which
by the way is very difficult to quantify
start looking into that stuff look into
the medical literature on that put in
case coming up with some notion of the
the loss of the actual nerve endings the
function of the tissue etc etc and then
the subjective experience of what sex is
but by the the minority people who came
have that contrasting experience in the
same way that you might with putting on
and taking off your glasses right now if
you close one eye if you just shut one
eye in at the other eye open you're
seeing with 50% as many nerve endings
and your imagination is filling in the
blanks and you see almost as well so
when I when I close one eye and I behold
the world around me I don't feel that
I'm getting half as much information
that I mean half as much experience of
reality in terms of detail or vividness
of culture vividness of color or even
perspective
I mean I'm aware it's a scientific fact
I'm losing my depth perception when I
close one eye but I can't really tell I
mean just in the moment looking around
the room if I close one eye it's
remarkable how well the mind adjusts how
well it creates an illusion of having
100% functionality with only 50% of the
nerve endings active and now by contrast
and invites you to keep both eyes open
both eyes looking straight ahead and
cover one eye with your hand so that one
eye is completely dark but it's not your
eyelid that's closed your eyelid is open
and you're blocking the eye with your
hand isn't that a very different
experience and you'll really notice it
if you move your head around while
having if you try to look around the
room well having one eye in this sense
blocked rather than closed your mind is
now struggling to do just as good a job
to provide you with just as good a
perception the world around you but you
can actually perceive the absence of
what would be coming in through your
other eye you have this this black this
blacked out image there's blank image
almost interrupting what you're seeing
through the other eye now I think the
effects of male circumcision are
actually comparable to both of these
experiences I think that those of us who
are lucky proceed
a situation of really being crippled or
disabled in the way that you are when
you're covering one eye and that eye is
open we proceed from a situation where
the the damage done to the tissue and
the nerve endings is really hampering
our our sexuality the basic function of
the penis and the experience through
your whole body and what-have-you
I think that we adapt in the same way
that your imagination and mind's eye
adapts to simply having one eye closed
what seems like we're perceiving almost
as much even though we know that we're
not as a simple fact we know that we're
not words like retardation and [ __ ]
obviously are very loaded but they're
often useful because and one of the
effects this has been discussed in
literature on circumcision not just in
European culture not just in Jewish
culture but I've seen this discussed in
forms of circumcision indigenous peoples
in Australia and other small groups
living on small islands in Southeast
Asia and so on one of the functions was
to delay delay effective in puberty I
don't really mean puberty here but delay
young men becoming sexually active young
men competing for wives mates
what-have-you
competing with older men this has been
perceived and discussed in
anthropological literature that doesn't
mean it's a fact but it's certainly
something that's been discussed in
social sciences and I think it's fair to
say that in adapting in making the shift
from having this kind of impaired vision
to having what seems like a complete
vision in in making that transition you
probably are really delaying men
reaching their full sexual maturity
their ability to use their sexuality
effectively by several years and again
this is of course largely just an
accident of this bizarre or social
custom that we're still driving around
the 21st century but certainly
anthropologists like to talk about it as
if it were part of the the intended
social function as if we're part of the
design the function that
that this custom serves within a given
tribal society again well that's
Aboriginal Australia islands of
Southeast Asia or or otherwise um I
think what Eric Clopper is going up
against here it's is a few different
forms of deep-seated prejudice and one
of them is just the the type of frigid s
thats built into medical expertise
itself so the other day I think this was
just yesterday I was talking to a
medical doctor who is now well known
within the vegan demi-monde here I'm not
gonna name him but he's a real old
medical or my impression is that he's a
general practitioner he's a GP but
obviously there's always excitement when
you have a medical doctor who can
advocate for veganism as a diet and he
does advocate for ethical veganism not
just for veganism on health grounds or
or some of that's not just veganism as a
way to lose weight and reduce your risk
of getting a heart attack or this sort
of thing um I was talking about the
problem discussed on this channel
recently of what are SSRI drugs various
classes of so called antidepressant
drugs what are their effects and so on
and it was just with unbelievable hubris
that he would throw back at me comments
such as quote I only care about the
stats I don't care at all I don't give a
damn at all about the mechanistic data
linked to this I don't give a damn about
the the theoretical basis for the health
claim like the theory of what the action
is supposed to be or the etiology of the
disease
he said repeatedly I don't give a damn
about the underlying condition that he
only cares about the stats about these
numbers indicating efficacy no I think I
think it would be impossible to get him
to admit that by the end of the
conversation I had budget disposition I
had forced him to reevaluate his
dismissal at that moment that was
laughing because it was so absurd to me
and I said well you know you you sound
really self-righteous when you say that
you sound really self-righteous when you
say you don't care
and you don't give a damn but you know
you should care these are ultimately
your patients unlike these are medicines
that have impacted the lives of millions
of people negatively and there are
class-action lawsuits and books
published and a lot of expert literature
showing the negative impacts these drugs
can have and have had this is not just
my opinion it's had a lot of negative
effects so we're talking with us and
you're saying so self righteously that
you don't give a damn oh you know for
example the actual mechanism of action
of what happens when you take these
drugs you're just gonna look at this
statistic nice elation you don't care
about the fact that these drugs were
originally marketed and presented to the
American public on the basis of a theory
that they corrected a chemical imbalance
in the brain and that that theory was
disproven in the early 1980s I think the
definitive year is 1982 but it continued
to be marketed that way people continue
to believe and take the drugs in that
basis so you have a drug where of the
actual the the theory behind its action
the theory claiming that cures an
underlying condition has been debunked
there are questions about the mechanism
to respond to that by saying no I'm just
gonna look at this one statistic and
isolation and that's that's all I care
about
he's so self-confident because he thinks
that's the most scientific position he
can take and from my position it's
laughable because it's pseudoscience
masquerading as science right and they
know ultimately numbers represent things
I mean this is no great riddle in
scientific literature and the type of
number he's clinging to or he did at the
beginning of the discussion I say by the
end of the discussion I think I'd budged
his perception of a point Oh for example
the numbers you're talking about what do
they actually represent I said most of
these studies you're talking about
three-week evaluation of self-perceived
improvement self-perceived aDNA so you
give someone a drug for three weeks and
ask them are you feeling better that's
not really object that snot really an
objective fact that number right there
are all kinds of objective facts I said
well measuring how well they're doing at
three weeks is very different from
measuring it after one year it's very
different to measure various objective
indicators with the DMP
the drugs have been as opposed to just
subjectively perceived well-being right
placebo effect is not the only factor
here but placebo effect is is one very
real factor a self-reported subjective
well-being or happiness is very very
slippery and of course I've dealt with
this a lot in my criticism of science
applied to Buddhist meditation you can
have someone meditate and ask them are
you feeling better and then you can
generate this as a statistic though
they're there two point seven point
you're they're there eight point three
points better on this scale you can make
it look like an objective scientific
fact but this is a completely subjective
opinion represented as a number that's
all that's going on here and the actual
number what's being represented normally
when you get into the footnotes in the
details starts to come apart but anyway
even in just pointing out to him the
significance of the number of weeks that
have passed in these studies the
particular study he had open like he had
a PDF open I think what we were talking
was actually study weeks to believe the
effects there was over eight weeks well
eight weeks there's a lot less than a
year so I'm so birth false opinions
rarely last long because everyone takes
such a salutary pleasure in refuting
them but false facts can endure for a
century and can be highly injurious and
the consensus view on antidepressants is
a great example of a false fact or even
a constellation of false facts that
people have come to treat as science
when for me as an outside observer
looking at it with a little bit of
detachment I can see it's laughably
pseudo scientific laughably so likewise
we have a situation where the medical
establishment especially in the United
States of America has assembled a
constellation of sort of false facts and
reassuring assumptions and these have
come to be regarded as frankly a form of
medical pseudo scientific orthodoxy
which is something much more powerful in
the United States of America then either
the police
and the Jewish faith or the belief in
the Islamic faith and it certainly has
no real coherent relationship to
religions like Protestantism and
Catholicism the United States religions
for whom circumcision has simply become
something normal without any really
clear and coherent dotted line linking
it to its publicity or the authority of
the church or or what-have-you
now look I don't think for my regular
NSF I have to spell this out but if
you're vegan living in the world as a
vegan you feel that at all times you're
surrounded by these sorts of you know
invisible okay is invisible the world
one is ubiquitous and yet easily ignored
atrocities you know they all these
terrible things going on cows are being
slaughtered to produce food that's
unnecessary unethical and unhealthy
there were animals being tortured to
death you know all around you and
slaughterhouses are undercity in
laboratories what-have-you devastating
impacts for ecology and personal health
and unspeakable pointless immiseration
of these animals themselves and everyone
ignores it not even because they like it
but because it's normal and there's a
really important contrast here I'd say
between you know the passive consumption
of meat people who eat meat because
they've never questioned why and you
know means someone who say someone who
really enjoys hunting someone who loves
the process of hunting down and killing
animals who really sees that as a very
positive thing the vast majority of
people who eat meat fall into the
passive category they eat meat and they
have no particular reason for eating
meat they their parents did it they just
didn't question it they grew up in a
culture norm and then you have a small
but vocal minority of passionate hunters
who are gonna you know we're really
gonna advocate for this now as vegans we
can win if we just convert to veganism
if we didn't even make sympathetic to
veganism those passive meat-eaters
because those are people who when they
see the reality of what's happening
at a factory farm when they you see the
reality of millions of tons of cow
manure
polluting rivers and lakes and oceans um
they can look at that and say wow it's
not worth it and somebody's maybe deeply
committed to a certain ideology as a
hunter that same person may go and visit
a slaughterhouse and they may really
eventually guess this is worth it they
may feel that this is their ideology
that they would subscribe to you they
would valorize this culture of millions
of people remaining dependent on
billions of animals dying every year in
the same way in terms of the future
discourse or any circumcision you have a
very very small minority people who
actually like this actually feel
positively about this operation and the
vast majority of people are going
through the motions the same way that
people will mindlessly go and buy buy a
hamburger McDonald's without thinking
about what is it without thinking about
the ecological consequence the ethical
consequences you know I think it's
important of the detachment and maturity
to realize that the circumcision debate
can win just by addressing and
converting those people the people who
are passively participating in the the
you know the the the custom of genital
mutilation not the people who are really
avid true believers in it and the people
who are passively participant that that
definitely includes the vast majority of
Jews the vast majority people who are
culturally Jewish people like Jerry
Seinfeld people who are not Orthodox
Jews but who simply happen to be born in
the Jewish Jewish faith the vast
majority of them also can be convinced
to come over to an anti circumcision
position easily enough and when you get
the majority those people at least
sympathizing with your position you have
one now I think that is a perspective
that Eric Eric clapper is lacking I'm
going to give the link to his video
below this video and you guys can see it
for yourself and join your conclusions I
could in future do a critique of his
video I could make a separate video here
talking about what I disagree with more
I think he stepped off the right path
but even this one
comment you can see that I'm drawing
attention to the fact that he is
choosing to really antagonize and target
that small hard core of true believers
the tiny percentage of people who really
think that circumcision is a good idea
as opposed to reaching out to and
bringing onto a side that much larger
public who are indifference to the issue
and who with just a little bit of
education and outreach can at least be
made sympathetic to if not avid
supporters of an anti circumcision
position as a basic question of human
rights
okay guys to be honest you I think I had
about five or six more topics to cover
in this video but we're past the twenty
minutes mark so for right now that's a
wrap you can support my channel on
patreon for one dollar a month I know I
have just a couple of supporters who
really want to talk to me more about
this issue about the future of
circumcision or I don't know
anti-circumcision activism I think
overall if you're looking at the Eric
Clopper experience this latest
controversy of him presenting his thesis
and a live lecture and then he was fired
from his position at Harvard University
because he dared to make this you know
somewhat offensive political statement
against against circumcision this is
obviously gonna be the biggest topic
discussed in this for quite some time I
can ask some of the same questions about
this that I asked about vegan activism I
don't think the way to address this is
with a mood of hatred anger or a sense
of injustice and that's exactly what
Eric klopper chooses to summon on stage
to give this dramatic performance
there's a lot of hate in anguish there's
a lot of anger and there's a sense of
trying to take revenge against injustice
in his performance um in a much more
sublimated and subtle way within
veganism there were leaders like
earthling IDI who also say that and
demonstrate that i listen to a lecture
just the other day i think yesterday
from earthling ed and he was he was
really talking about hatred and rage and
anger and how he felt it was important
they can touch with that as as if he can
activist when you're doing this kind
I was listening to thinking wow I could
edit this together with what I say about
doing outreach and education importance
I put on love what I call cold love
having a cold detached form of love and
you're outraged I can say Wow here's
earthling Edie his philosophy is like
the exact opposite of mine like 180
degrees - interesting here so in the
same way I could say someone like Eric
law or someone doing this kind of this
kind of overreaching activism you have
to find a way to do it that that's
that's based in love and again not just
love for the hapless victims but it's
difficult describe I just did a video
talking about this um you know love in
the sense of you're reaching out to help
the person you're preaching to because
you're confident that what you're
preaching is for their own benefit that
you are actually helping them you're not
just for buting them or insulting them
you know just denigrating them or
letting you know how ethically inferior
they are to you you feel confident that
if they knew what you know rationally
they would come to the same conclusions
that you come to and that you are in a
very fundamental sense helping them to
be a better person by giving them that
option and opportunity there's a kind of
love there where I can reach out to
someone who's been a meat-eater their
whole life and a hunter I can say to
them look here are the facts now what
what kind of person you want to be and I
can certainly reach out to someone who
has supported kessaris
not castration circumcision male genital
mutilation someone who's supported that
custom their whole lives and I can say
to them hey these are the consequences
this is the scientific reality this is
the historical background and now you
have to take responsibility for your own
decisions in life you have to look in
the mirror and ask what kind of person
do you want to be and as difficult as it
may be to to muster an attitude of
detachment and compassion and even love
for the people you're educating that is
exactly what you've got to do and if you
can't do that I think you've got to get
off stage because when you do it
a sense of anger and hatred frustration
revenge injustice well you know feeling
wanting revenge for an injustice I think
you discredit your own movement you
discredit yourself and to be blunt you
also soon enough for yourself to the
brink of insanity and I see that with
many vegan activists who do drive
themselves crazy with veganism normally
over a couple of years but it catches up
and you know I think it'll deserve to be
asked about Eric clapper who's now
promising to have a long career
dedicated to lobbying government on this
issue either he's gonna change tactics
partly for his own sanity and partly to
do outreach and education more
effectively ie he's gonna drop this you
know mantle of resentment and anger and
hatred or he's gonna drive himself crazy
and I realize it's partly for theatrical
reasons that he's doing this but I don't
have to name names there are plenty of
people here in the vegan movement where
you can pretend they're just doing this
for a theatrical reasons but ultimately
the question we have to ask is not
merely if someone acts insane but if
their beliefs attitudes and behaviors
betoken that that they really are insane
politics itself is in large part of
performance and I do regard Eric Lauper
as someone who is struggling to make the
transition from being something like a
professor of physics physics was his
field to to being a performer and to
being a politician I think now the whole
world is gonna watch as he takes the
next step from his one-man play from
this emotional meltdown on stage to what
I hope is a more cerebral positive and
engaged future that may indeed be you
know a significant step as Western
culture Christian Jewish and Islamic
culture start to challenge the
assumptions of millennia about male
genital mutilation